---
layout: post
author: Sriram Akella
bibliography:
- references.bib
title: "**Thesis Proposal**"
---

Quantum entanglement [@Horodecki:2009zz] is a physical resource of
quantum mechanics not present in classical theory. Tapping into this
resource allows us access to efficient cryptographic routines and
computational algorithms. Consider the Shor's algorithm
[@Shor1994algorithms] for factoring integers or the BB84 [@BENNETT20147]
quantum cryptographic protocol. Shor's algorithm is superior to the
general number field sieve which is currently the best known classical
algorithm for factoring integers. BB84 is superior to the standard RSA
encryption used everywhere. Quantum entanglement is at the heart of
these protocols. From a technological perspective, therefore, it is
essential to understand what entanglement is, how to quantify it, and
how to create it in a lab. All of these questions are well-understood,
however, only in the bipartite case. Entanglement is always defined as
system $A$ being entangled with system $B$. If there is another system
$C$, then the entanglement shared between $A$, $B$, and $C$ together is
not understood. But there exists the idea of *genuine multipartite
entanglement* which is beyond the realm of bipartite entanglement. My
advisor and colleagues came up with a new class of measures of
multipartite entanglement in [@Gadde:2022cqi; @Gadde:2023zzj]. One of
the major aims of my thesis will be to understand the various features
of multipartite entanglement via these measures.

Another reason for wanting to understand these measures is because of
the AdS/CFT correspondence [@Maldacena:1997re; @Witten:1998qj] and the
Ryu-Takayanagi formula [@Ryu:2006bv]. It states that the entanglement
entropy of a region $A$ in the boundary CFT is given by the area of a
surface $\gamma_A$ in the bulk AdS theory. For the multipartite case
too, the entropy of a collection of regions in the boundary CFT is given
by the area of a "brane web" in the bulk theory.
